---
version: "0.2"
pubDate: "2026-03-15"
---

## General
- **feature** The sidebar and queue are now resizable.
- **feature** Added a settings window.
- **feature** The user interface has been redesigned to be more consistent.
- **feature** Changed the default theme colors to have improved contrast.
- **feature** Added localization support.
  - **feature** Vietnamese translation (@vicr123).
  - **feature** Slovak translation (@PeterHevesi).
  - **feature** Czech translation (@PeterHevesi).
  - **feature** Greek translation (@SuperScope96 (Discord)).
- **feature** Added forward navigation.
- **feature** M4 and M5 now move back and forward respectively.
- **feature** Backspace now moves back, and Alt/Option + Left/Right now move back/forward.
- **feature** Added a menu bar to the top of the main window.
- **fix** Command palette actions should now work more reliably.
- **fix** Images should be removed from video memory more reliably.

## Library
- **feature** Added the Track view.
- **feature** Table columns can now be resized.
- **feature** Right-clicking on a table column now shows a menu allowing you to show/hide columns.
- **feature** Record-style disc/track pairs (eg. Side A, Track 1) are now fully supported.
- **feature** The Album view can now be displayed as a grid of album art.
  - **feature** The grid size can be adjusted in the settings.
- **feature** Added a setting that allows the library to take up the full width of the area provided.
- **feature** Added a "Play next" option to the context menu for tracks.
- **improvement** Reduced the number of times album art was loaded, reducing CPU and memory usage.
- **fix** Improved Album view performance. 
- **fix** The Album table now properly displays release years.
- **fix** Resolved a database contention issue that resulted in Hummingbird freezing or crashing when adding a song to a playlist while scanning.

## Queue
- **feature** Added a context menu to queue items, allowing you to remove them from the queue or view the album/artist.
- **feature** The queue can now be reordered via drag-and-drop.
- **feature** The queue is now preserved across restarts.
- **fix** The queue should no longer leak memory when playing files not in your library.

## Playlists
- **feature** Playlists can now be reordered via drag-and-drop.
- **fix** A failure to import one item in a playlist no longer causes the entire playlist to fail to import.

## Scanner
- **feature** Hummingbird now fully supports external hard drives.
  - **feature** When a folder present in the library is found to be missing, Hummingbird will now ask the user if they want to keep it or delete it from their library.
  - **feature** Missing files are now displayed as grayed-out in the library and cannot be interacted with.
- **improvement** The scanner now takes better advantage of multiple CPU cores, improving scan times by ~50% on mid-range systems.
- **improvement** Changed scan record format to reduce disk size of record.
- **improvement** Hummingbird now attempts to retrieve only the first track's album art, preventing single-track album art from replacing the album's art.
- **fix** Hummingbird will no longer panic when it encounters a missing directory. (@Skittyblock)
- **fix** Path canonicalization failures no longer cause Hummingbird to panic.
- **fix** Artists and albums are now properly removed/modified when a track is updated.
- **fix** The scanner now handles non-UTF-8 paths more correctly when encountered.
- **fix** Files that failed to be commited to the library's database are no longer stored in the scan record.
- **fix** Removal of deleted files is no longer prevented by their presence in a playlist.
- **fix** Paths from the Windows system music Library are now normalized before being sent to the scanner.

## Playback
- **feature** Volume is now preserved across restarts. (@Skittyblock)
- **feature** Double-clicking the volume slider now resets the volume to 100%.
- **feature** The album art of the currently playing track can now be shown by hovering over the preview in the bottom left.
- **improvement** Signifigantly reduced playback allocations, reducing CPU utilization by ~1-2% on mid-range systems.
- **fix** Resampling of non-stereo files should now function correctly.
- **fix** Improved format detection logic, allowing more reliable playback of unusual formats.
