---
version: "0.3.0"
pubDate: "2026-04-14"
---

## General
- **feature** The left sidebar can now be collapsed.
- **feature** Added a "New Playlist" button to the left sidebar.
- **feature** Added more context menus:
  - **feature** Added context menus to the track and album lists.
  - **feature** Added a context menu to the info section of the controls (in the bottom left).
- **feature** Added lyrics (synced and unsynced) support.
- **feature** Added auto-updating support. (@143mailliw, @transitoryangel)
- **feature** You can now copy information critical for bug reporting from the Help menu or command palette. (@transitoryangel)
- **feature** You can now open the log file from the Help menu or command palette. (@transitoryangel)
- **feature** Added tooltips to most otherwise unlabeled buttons.
- **feature** The previous window size is restored when the application restarts.
- **improvement** Added 4 new languages:
  - **improvement** Finnish (@jansol)
  - **improvement** German (@jansol)
  - **improvement** Japanese (@jansol)
  - **improvement** Spanish (@hystericca)
- **improvement** Various improvements to the Nix flake. (@AgentElement, @camuward)
- **fix** The About dialog can now be closed with the Escape key. (@transitoryangel)
- **fix** Ellipses should no longer be displayed in areas where the entire text can fit.
- **fix** The minimize/maximize button now uses a minimize icon when the window is maximized.
- **fix** The window can now be unmaximized when on Windows.
- **fix** Sliders are now limited to updating every 1 millisecond, reducing stuttering.
- **fix** Memory usage was signifigantly reduced.
- **fix** The macOS "Services" submenu now works properly.

## Library
- **feature** The album and artist listings can now be displayed side-by-side with the main content pages (two-column view).
- **feature** The library search now includes tracks and artists.
- **feature** You can now shuffle all tracks in the library using Library -> Shuffle All or the command palette.
- **feature** Middle-clicking on search items, tracks, and albums now queues the item to be played next.
- **feature** Playlists can now be renamed.
- **feature** Table columns are now reorderable by dragging and dropping.
- **feature** Clicking on artists' names in the release page now navigates to the artist's page.
- **feature** Playlists can now be exported from the context menu and imported from the Library menu.
- **feature** The track listing now shows album art. (@transitoryangel)
- **feature** The escape key now returns to the previous navigation page when in a detail page. (@PeterHevesi)
- **improvement** The like song button is now a different color when the song is already liked.
- **fix** The track listing should now be more tolerant of improperly tagged music.
- **fix** The artists list should no longer be sorted in a case-sensitive manner.
- **fix** The grid view should no longer cause the application to stutter when loading images takes too long.

## Queue
- **feature** The queue now automatically scrolls to the current queue item when it changes.
- **feature** Track duration is now displayed in the queue.
- **feature** The queue now displays individual track artists.
- **improvement** The queue can now be resized up to 800px (instead of 450px). (@mvanhorn)
- **improvement** The current track is now kept when the queue is cleared. This can be disabled in the settings. (@transitoryangel)
- **fix** The queue should no longer leak memory in certain album art configurations.

## Settings
- **feature** Multiple themes can now be placed in the `themes` folder, which allows them to be selectable from within the settings. (@transitoryangel)
- **feature** Added a setting to always show scrollbars, instead of hiding them when interaction stops. (@transitoryangel)
- **feature** Added a setting to change the library page displayed on startup. (@transitoryangel)
- **feature** The settings window can now be closed with the Escape key. (@transitoryangel)
- **improvement** Multiple folders can now be selected from the "Add Folder" dialog.
- **improvement** The appearance of settings items has been changed.
- **fix** Enabling/disabling the "Always Repeat" setting is now properly represented in the UI.
- **fix** The contents of the settings window can now be scrolled. (@transitoryangel)

## Playback
- **feature** Added ReplayGain support.
- **feature** Shuffling and repeat settings now persist on restart.
- **feature** Hummingbird now connects to Discord.
- **feature** The artist and track names in the info section (bottom left) can now be clicked on to bring you to the related artist/album page. (@transitoryangel)
- **feature** The info section and secondary controls (left and right sides of the bottom section) can now be resized. (@PeterHevesi)
- **improvement** Hovering over the volume slider now shows the current volume percentage. (@transitoryangel)
- **improvement** The scrobber now updates more frequently (30 times a second instead of 1 time a second)
- **fix** Fixed several race conditions in the implementation of OS integrations (eg. Now Playing on macOS) that caused metadata retreival to become unreliable.
- **fix** Scrolling with the trackpad no longer causes volume to always be set to 100% or 0%.
- **fix** The artist name in the info section now falls back to the album artist when it is known and the track artist is not.
- **fix** Playing a track while paused no longer causes a few milliseconds of the previously playing track to play.
- **fix** Playing, pausing, and changing the volume should no longer cause audible crackling on Linux and macOS. This will be fixed on Windows in a future release. (@transitoryangel)
- **fix** Hummingbird no longer attempts to play unsupported files.

## Scanner
- **feature** Added an item to the "Library" menu that allows you to perform a regular (non-force) scan.
- **feature** Disc Subtitle tags are now scanned and displayed in the library.
- **feature** Pressing Alt + S now scans the library.
- **fix** Some improperly formatted Disc tags are now scanned correctly.
- **fix** Month + year release dates are now properly parsed (previously only year-only or full dates were parsed). (@transitoryangel)
- **fix** MusicBrainz Album ID tags are now read correctly from ID3-contained audio files (eg. MP3).
- **fix** Scanning is stopped before a rescan is started.
- **fix** The scanner now writes partial scan records, allowing it to recover from a crash properly.
- **fix** The scanner now attempts to detect case changes on case-insensitive file systems. This is known not to work.
